OK we are back.
Hooray.
Last Lecture we covered the way of planning your outsourcing strategy.
Are you going to get someone with perfect English who only needs limited direction and has all the skills
in the world.
Or maybe someone who don't speak to good but really only has basic skills and therefore you can save
a little money with that insight and hand let's move forward to finding where these people are now.
There are a lot of places you can go to find editors but I'm going to suggest the ones that work for
me and where I go back to time and time again when I need people for post-production.
Now the first one is good all up work that God awful Frankenstein e Lance mushed together with oDesk.
The second site is a site called Video pixies worth checking out.
The third one you might have heard of already.
Not one is called fiber fiber is seriously like a Swiss Army knife of websites.
Now if you're not in my outsourcing courses let me introduce you to the first one up work.
Now upper BC is the largest online marketplace for finding contractors of virtually any sort.
No you're not going to find a contractor to fix the leaky faucet.
You probably would use thumbtack for that but you can find any contractor that can work online virtually.
And that means programmers virtual assistants writers researchers designers engineers lawyers even accountants
and yes video professionals.
Yes people who work in video like to be referred to as video professionals.
But if you really want to be PC you really should refer to them by their more acceptable name.
Little professionals Ulbrich is a monster of a market and they literally have millions of freelancers
on their system.
This is usually like go to first when looking for editors.
Here you can find a range of prices a range of capabilities and a range of communication abilities.
In fact 4 out of the 5 video editors I work with today are from work originally.
Now the way I use the site is pretty simple.
Sign up post a job and then fill out the relevant information for the job posting it will ask you what
skills are relevant to your position and you have the option of leaving this blank.
And if you do that's perfectly fine but if you decide to actually list out the skills you need and keep
in mind that the system will actually paying more people and you'll get more people to apply and then
choose from.
If you just want a timeline added other then just type in the name of common video editing software
is like Adobe Premiere Final Cut Pro Sony Vega and then whatever.
Try something generic like video editing.
Now if you want more complicated skills and try some generic ones but then also add in some things like
animation or YouTube or Adobe After Effects.
Apple motion or even motion graphics anything frankly you can find that would fit in the ballpark of
who you are looking for.
Generally just try to find some software they use or some specific thing they do within that specialty
and then chances are that you'll find the people you're looking for.
Now people will bid and then submit will they call cover letters which are basically just written statements
as to why they're interested in the gig and usually they're just templates.
But from there you can actually message them.
One thing I strongly suggest to do after posting on opera is actually to go to that section where you
can search for freelancers.
It's big surprise under the header freelancer's and click on that and you go to find freelancer's.
So go ahead and input the information you're looking for.
Use the same specifications used in the job posting to narrow your search down.
Then just go through this and and look for people that match your criteria and click invite to apply.
You'll get a message directly asking them to apply and in the vast majority of cases they actually will
apply.
If you spend 5 to 10 minutes doing this you'll easily get three times as many applications and you honestly
don't have to customize these at all just clicking like apply and apply.
They get the point.
It's like a place worth talking about is video Pixi which operates very similarly to up work but is
focused solely on video professionals.
With this site you'll be asked to input more information about where you are in the process of your
video what you'd like in your video how long it is etc. etc..
Nothing too surprising but I will point out that video Pixi is number one generally going to be more
expensive and number two it serves as a platform to find all types of video professionals not just video
editors.
If you need a videographer also known as that person who goes with you to the shoot and operates the
camera then you can find that there as well.
Video Pixi has its ups and downs.
Generally speaking you'll get a better sampling of editors from expensive countries and more impressive
portfolios and fewer from editors that are just starting out or might be in less traditional countries.
Of course you'll get both types I'm just saying that there is usually a skew to the former because of
that.
I usually only use video Pixi if I know I have a modest budget to get this done.
If I want to scrap my way through an editing job without spending much on a much better shot at finding
the right combination of help on up work however up work I might not find people who are as polished.
Personally I'd suggest trying both and seeing what you like more.
Now the last place worth taking a peek at is a little counterintuitive and it's called Phifer.
Oh sweet sweet Fire.
Fire is spelled with two r's for some reason if you don't remember the site where you can buy one off
services for $5 or always some multiple $5 fiver.
Believe it or not it's actually a good place to find video editors and especially animators.
How does that work exactly if you're just using the site to pay $5 at a time.
We'll actually part of the reason people offer their services on firers because that $5 might not be
much but there's a good chance that they'll turn you into a long term client which does in the end pay
off for them pretty well.
So in that way it's actually pretty normal fish for editors here to find people here it's pretty straightforward.
Search for what you're looking for like edit a video if you want some generic or add graphics or graphics
editor or use verbs like animate or custom animation to find people with skills and animation go through
the list you receive and just watch the portfolio videos when you see someone you like.
You can either just messes them Dellec directly about the larger job or try ordering a smaller job for
a small party or video or video series first and see how they do the do well.
Then at that time you can just ask them if they want to do work on all the others.
That is actually the preferred route of doing this because otherwise you're just going to waste a lot
of time.
Onboarding someone that you find out you don't like them.
Now you can use the fiber pricing system if you want to.
And if it's applicable to continue paying them or you can just ask to pay them off of fiber and then
you can set up a direct relationship using Paypal or whatever.
Now fiber is a goldmine for editors because for whatever reason five are kind of became Ground Zero
for that explainer craze that happened over the last five years.
Every person with a Web site that for some reason they needed an explainer video and thus a glut of
cheap video animators flocked to fiver to offer their services.
The beauty though is that because they're in a marketplace compared to each other the competition has
driven their costs down significantly.
That means you get people that are cheap as $5 for half a minute of animation which is absolutely crazy
by the standards of work or video Pixi.
The thing is if you're making a lot of videos say you're doing a series or a course or something similar
you have a lot of video and if you try to use animation throughout hours of video well that can get
extremely expensive if you're in that situation and you insist on needing animation then try fiber.
So those are the three that should meet all your needs up work video Pixi and fiber.
OK that's great.
You know where to go.
Well you might not know especially if you're new to video.
How do you go about selecting the right person.
Well there are a couple obvious things you'll use at first.
Number one they all will have portfolios attached to their bid or at least on their 5 page.
Just look through it and see if it matches what you're looking for.
If they don't have any videos that are similar to the format of video you're trying to make then try
your best to judge whether you think the quality of the other stuff is something close to what you're
looking for.
Chances are if they make something you like well they can probably make it for whatever format you're
looking to fill.
Now the other thing right off the bat you'll look for is what we talked about last lecture.
Are they in your sweet spot with regards to price communication skill and skill set.
If they're not well then you can save yourself time by just skipping over that person with those two
checks.
You can usually narrow your selection down to a smaller group of people.
Great.
Now here's what I do to get the extra mile and really see if they're worth working with.
If I'm working on a large project with multiple videos I ask them to do what's called a trial video
much like an audition for an acting role.
You can ask them to do exactly what the job is for but just for a really really small limited selection
in this situation you'd simply grab a piece of your video try to keep it small enough to not take a
significant effort but long enough that will actually give you an idea of whether or not they can do
the job.
And then just ask them to do a trial video if they're OK with it.
Now in most cases as long as this is for a big multi video project they'll be fine with it.
In some cases you might want to offer to pay them for the test video.
Just knowing that it will get more participation by the editors and the amount you'll pay out is usually
negligible compared to the greater project.
Some editors can be weary about doing these because maybe they get burned in the past or something or
whatever.
So yeah sometimes you can offer just like a flat rate.
Now for talking about making say a video ad or a promotional video then this technique probably isn't
really going to fly.
The follow up project probably isn't big enough for the editor and the trial itself would require too
much work.
In that case I generally just like to give them a question or two about the video.
Ask them what they think of the idea you have for the video or ask them how they would edit something.
I use this verbal task just as a general way to see whether or not the person is articulate enough that
I know working with them will be easy.
And it also gives you an idea of what their attitude in general is like some editors think they are
holier than thou and can't be bothered to do anything unless they're being paid.
Those people suck don't hire them they're never worth it.
Hire someone who doesn't act or think in such a transactional way and who actually shows they can think
about your project you're vetting them for.
Also it doesn't hurt if they're somewhat interested in what they're doing and not just doing it for
the money.
If you break down your vetting process this way you'll usually come away with an obvious winner.
If not then either try again or just accept the fact that you might have to take on risk by hiring the
closest thing you can find on the bright side you can usually tell very quickly if they're not going
to work out in which case you can just start the process all over again.
The last thing I'll mention is and this is kind of a curveball but occasionally you get some really
good values by posting on Craigslist.
I know this is bizarre and there's no system for managing the process with them or their relationship
with them.
It if you're smart about it you can handle it fine.
Usually what I like to do on Craigslist is post in the gig section there's a section specifically for
video editing services.
I can't remember how many it is but you can find it's pretty obvious what you can do is what I like
to do is post in areas like L.A. because in L.A. there's a ton of people who do video editing and in
fact a lot of them don't have enough stuff in their portfolio.
So a lot of them are pretty flexible on price and they're also pretty talented.
That's kind of the Mecca for like video editing.
All right guys that's enough of that.
Hopefully you knew what to do when you need an editor.
See the next lecture.